---
title: Why I am so “extra” about my faith
author: Rebecca Plaatjies
type: post
date: 2018-04-19T17:41:26+00:00
url: /why-i-am-so-extra-about-my-faith/
featured_image: /wp-content/uploads/2023/06/d693d49a22bd40c08fccc2f9fc920430-scaled-1.jpg
categories:
  - Uncategorised

---
It’s been a while since I have posted something but I have been quite busy living the student life (hahaha).  
One thing that has been on my mind for a while is why I am a Christian.

A lot of people may see my posts and think, “This girl is waaaay too extra.”

The other day somebody compared the way that I am with God to the way he&#8217;s (obsessive) ex-girlfriend was with him and I initially thought to myself, “Gosh, I’m not that bad.” But then I realised that I should take it as a compliment. Believe me, I’ve tried to turn it down. I’ve tried to be “down with the cool kids” but I just can’t. God is in my DNA; His blood flows through my veins and He&#8217;s my best friend. The people who I’m really close with know that if I love you, I LURVE you and so, I’m just being myself when I brag about God.  
For this blog post, I decided to make a list of reasons as to why I’m so “extra” about my faith. This is difficult because on the one hand, I could just write down one reason and then on the other hand, I could write down 100. But I’ve narrowed it down/up to three.

## 1. I’ve felt a connection to God since I was young {.wp-block-heading}

Ever since I can remember, I have always wondered about God. I always wanted to know more about Him and if I am completely honest, I got saved out of pure curiosity. I grew up in a very traditional Christian family and so I was constantly surrounded by matters of faith. I wanted to know what the big deal was but looking back, it really doesn’t matter to me now what my reasons were, I’m just glad that I did it. I was 9 years old and I was bored. It was the afternoon and I had just come home from school. I was sitting in my room with nothing to do and so I decided to pray and I did. I can’t even remember what I said, I just remember that I closed the door and knelt by my bed and I prayed. It was really short because I really didn’t have much to say to God at the time. Afterwards, I went out to my mom and I told her, “Mommy, I just prayed.” And she looked at me with such pride in her eyes and she said, “Do you want to give your heart to Jesus?” and I just said, “Yes.” That night my dad lead me to the Lord. I remember that I got my first bible soon after that and I was constantly drawn to Isaiah chapters 41 to 44, especially the parts that said, “Do not fear for I am with you.” And I imagined myself to be Jacob who God was referring to. Every time, that I felt fear I would read that scripture and it would calm me down. I did this for quite a while and I didn’t know it at the time, but I was building a relationship with God through reading that scripture over and over again. I have always felt God with me, helping me, nudging me and comforting me; I just didn’t know it at the time. Some people may call it your conscience but to me, your conscience is the thing that tells you not to eat that chocolate up all by yourself. God or rather the Holy Spirit is what kept me from going with my friends to smoke in primary school, or from doing things just to fit in. All along I saw my being “the good girl” as a hinderance when God used it to protect me.

## 2. God has brought me a mighty long way {.wp-block-heading}

Now listen, don’t make me start preaching (hahahaha). Just kidding lol. I am still young but God has done so many amazing things for me that I have to honour him. There are things that have taken place in my life that could have been God ordained. To some people, it’s just coincidence or fate or luck but to me it’s grace and favour. I am not going to name all the things that God has done for me (that’s a topic for another day), because it’s more than that. It’s so much deeper than blessings and favour. Many people have the misconception that Christians are all well off, happy-go-lucky, worry-less people but the truth is, that’s not always the case. You’ll see that some of the worst off people are the happiest people because of one simple reason: faith. The Apostle Paul in the bible just nails it when he says, “I know what it is to be in need and I know what it is to have plenty. I have learned the secret of being content in any and every situation, whether well fed or hungry, whether living in plenty or in want.” Phil. 4:12. It has not been easy for me as is the same with everybody but, I would always run back to that scripture, “Do not fear for I am with you.” God has done things for be that have blown my mind and I have also seen God do things for other people that have left me speechless. But at the end of the day, I believe that a true believer is not left speechless by what God has done for them, but by what He didn’t do 2000 years ago. He didn’t condemn us to an eternal hell but gave us the greatest gift of all: GRACE and the opportunity to be with Him in Heaven one day. A phrase comes to mind right now that a lot of my friends use, “Dude, it’s not that deep.” But it is for me, it’s deeper than you would ever imagine.

## 3. Some people call it obsessed; I call it returning the favour. {.wp-block-heading}

There are a lot of saved people out there who choose to live their lives in ways that work for them and I have no problem with that. I have chosen to live my life in a way that tries to glorify God. I am human; I make mistakes and fall from grace many times but thank God that God (no pun intended) is forgiving. To some people it may come across as &#8220;too much&#8221; but if I can try to make you understand, I would put it this way: _If someone gives their life for you without you knowing them, do you not owe that person your life?_ That is the reason why I raise my hands in worship and why most of my posts are about God &#8211; I owe Him my life. that is the reason why I say that I love Him so much &#8211; I owe Him my life. That is why I why I want others to know about Him &#8211; because He died to set all of us free. He didn&#8217;t just give me life; He gave me life abundantly with the prospect of eternal life after I leave this earth. For those of you who think that I am overly religious &#8211; it&#8217;s not above religion, it&#8217;s about love. A love so deep that it doesn&#8217;t make sense to the human mind so most people choose to reject it. I am so glad that I chose to accept it.