---
title: Maturity 
author: Rebecca Plaatjies
type: post
date: 2020-03-19T14:31:04+00:00
url: /maturity/
featured_image: /wp-content/uploads/2020/03/550afd042062b2b898396f487f4b0b48.jpg
categories:
  - Uncategorised

---
<figure class="wp-block-pullquote">

> _“The state, fact or period of being mature.”_</figure> 

When I was younger, I saw maturity as a level in life, a brand or characteristic that is thrust upon you by God. In other words, I assumed that once you reached a certain age – you can classify yourself as mature. While I was not entirely wrong, as experience does play a huge role in being mature; there was one thing wrong with my hypothesis – if maturity is thrust upon you at a certain age, let’s say 21, then surely everyone over 21 should be mature?; which I came to find out, was not the case much to my dismay.



Here are some things that I learnt about maturity and what it encompasses for me:

## 1. Your age does not qualify you as mature but your experience does count in favour thereof. {.wp-block-heading}

When I stopped thinking in the naïve way that I used to, I realised that I was holding some of those older than me to a much higher standard than what I ought. I’ve always associated age with maturity however, I had to let go of that notion after I had conversations with a 27 year old or after observing some immature behaviour from even 40 year olds. It was not their status in life that led me to believe that they were immature; on the contrary they were doing well for themselves but it was the manner in which they tackled problems, how they treated people and how they made decisions that lead me to believe that were not as mature as they put forward to be. Maturity is a choice and often involves taking the road less travelled – a road that many people don’t choose to embark on because it requires more effort.

## 2. Your maturity does not come forth on paper but rather in your actions.  {.wp-block-heading}

In other words, many people base their maturity off of their social standing, financial standing and even spiritual status. To go back to my initial point – you seem mature on paper but only your actions can really confirm whether you are. In this case, your actions can be defined as to how you treat people – do you treat everyone with the same level of respect or only those you know and support? The latter suggests some immaturity in your manner of thinking. Do you speak about people with bad intentions and exaggerate stories for attention, when you don’t even know the full story? Behaviour like this, to me, is indicative of immaturity. For me, being mature means putting your own feelings aside and attempting to do the right thing at all costs. Easier said than done but still possible.

## 3. Maturity is not an emotion or feeling. {.wp-block-heading}

Earlier on I mentioned that maturity often requires you to take the road less traveled which ties in with the above mentioned statement. We are often presented with problems even as young people, where we know what the right thing to do is but we choose to yield to our emotions instead. Why? Because it’s easier and because, as much as we don’t want to admit it, we are selfish beings. Let me give you an example from my own life – in my first year of university, I got into an argument with my friend about a situation that neither of us could agree on. She made a statement that I did not like and I immediately chirped back with a really mean and slightly personal response as rebuttal. There are many facets of the situation that led to that point such as pent-up anger etc but EVEN SO, I could have handled the situation better. I could have been more mature. Instead, I came across as childish and rude which are characteristics that I don’t want to associate with. I chose the easier, more emotional response. A mature person would have breathed, accepted the initial attack from the other person and then proceeded to say, “Listen, we both have separate ideas of what is right. Instead of biting one another’s heads off – let’s just agree to disagree.”

## 4. Maturity is not the absence of mistakes but rather the decision to become responsible for them. {.wp-block-heading}

Maturity does not mean perfection. Only Jesus is perfect, you guys. So don’t think that if someone makes a mistake, that it makes them immature or weak. The deciding factor of their maturity (to me), is determined by their response to that mistake. Taking ownership and responsibility for your mistakes is not weakness, but to me it shows a high level of maturity and wins my respect as well. Even more so, how you choose to improve or fix what you have done wrong, gains you even more brownie points in my book. Why? Because it shows that you are always trying to improve yourself and that you are not too proud that you can’t admit that you were wrong and that your post behaviour shows intentional improvement.

While I know that many people have their own definitions of maturity, I want to reiterate that these are my own views and what I have observed so far. I am still learning myself and I admit that I struggle with this concept as well. I do not want bash anybody’s beliefs or look down on anyone’s progress – on the contrary, I would like to challenge us as young people to put more thought into our actions. Maturity takes time and involves a process but at it&#8217;s core, it starts with a choice.

**1 Corinthians 13:11**

<blockquote class="wp-block-quote is-layout-flow wp-block-quote-is-layout-flow">
  <p>
    <em>“When I was a child, I talked like a child, I thought like a child, I reasoned like a child. When I became a man, I put the ways of childhood behind me.”</em>
  </p>
</blockquote>